Music Programming

Music and computation have always been a good match. Human perception is fundamental to musical composition, and
it turns out that natural perceptual phenomena can often best be described and modeled using mathematical
relationships. For example, the interval between two notes played together as a chord, or one after the other in a melody,
can be described by taking the frequency of each sound and looking at the ratio between them. Certain ratios will be
more "pleasant" to the ear than others. Furthermore, structure of music is often quite regular, with well recognized
patterns of repetition (from rhythm to whole sections) and variation, which lends itself well to the paradigms of
programming.

There is therefore nothing strange about learning music through programming and/or learning programming through
music. This idea has been explored since the dawn of modern computing, and an idea that Sonic P in particular embraces:

"Sonic Pi is an open-source programming environment developed by Dr Sam Aaron, designed to explore and teach
programming concepts through the process of creating new sounds [and music]. This is a scheme of work which
emphasises the importance of creativity in the learning process and gives users the control to turn their sonic ideas
into reality."

Sonic Pi is actually a lot more than a great educational tool, it is also a new kind of a musical instrument that supports live
performances, an art that has become known as "live coding":

"Live coding is a new direction in electronic music and video, and is getting somewhere interesting. Live coders
expose and rewire the innards of software while it generates improvised music and/or visuals. All code manipulation
is projected for your pleasure. Live coding works across musical genres, and has been seen in concert halls, late night
jazz bars, as well as algoraves. There is also a strong movement of video-based live coders, writing code to make
visuals, and many environments can do both sound and video, creating synaesthetic experiences."